# decollab

Version control software like git and code repository storage websites like GitHub and BitBucket have dominated the way we write and collaborate on code. However, we’ve always seen the two as almost separate entities; moreover,  these platforms are not easy to grasp, especially for amateur coders that need a space for simpler code collaboration. DECOLLAB solves these two issues by offering a singular, streamlined platform for coders to easily work on projects together quickly and effectively.

DECOLLAB is entirely web-hosted, which means that users can write code and manage their repositories all on one website. DECOLLAB features a simple, delta-based version control software that allows users to save their changes and view revision histories of their code. And of course, the most important part about DECOLLAB is that it is built on the Internet Computer blockchain, whose decentralized nature gives users full control over their repositories. 

On the Internet Computer, DECOLLAB is a two-canister, backend-frontend system. The frontend canister hosts the website and user interface that was demoed. Based on user actions, this canister makes calls to the backend canister, written in Motoko, which stores and manages the data associated with the repositories.

Firstly, exposing the full features of Git to a decentralized, web-hosted code editing and repository management program would allow more experienced coders to take advantage of the benefits that DECOLLAB provides. While the primary goal of DECOLLAB is its simplicity, appeal to a wider group of the programming industry would greatly foster the growth of this software. Furthermore, I plan to have DECOLLAB integrate further with the capabilities of the Internet Computer. One such feature is Internet Identity, which would provide users with secure authentication and more organized control over their repositories.

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd decollab/
dfx help
dfx config --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:8000?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

Additionally, if you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 8000.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`NODE_ENV` to `production` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.NODE_ENV` in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
